What an amazing time we're having so far hey
It's now amazing i just want to say a massive thank you again to the kids can we give the kids another round of applause for what they did that was beautiful well done
And to you, Molly, from the Youth World Dunk, guys, that was awesome. Thank you.
for the media stuff let's give a round of applause loads of great media stuff I mean we're going to do this again probably later I don't know just add living
but i get i get the pleasure of speaking to you for the for the next few minutes and i won't go on for too long that's one of the things that my mother-in-law said.
Don't speak for too long otherwise I'll interrupt.
we know that could happen so um i am not going to speak for too long but i want us to look just for a moment at traditions and longings.
So my question to you is this.
do you have any traditions in your home or family when it comes to christmas?
the answer of course is yes i know you have and not only that actually most of us think that our tradition and our way of celebrating christmas day is probably the right way to do it.
It's the best way. Everybody else is a little bit weird. They should all do it our way.
I mean i remember when i first realized people did christmas differently to me some people had their christmas meal in the evening of all things now we're a lunchtime person you may be an evening
An evening person, that's fine. Some people don't open their presents till like after 11 o'clock. Oh, my word.
We used to have carnage in our house.
But now I know civilised people open their presents one at a time and actually watch. We were just ripping things up. No one knew who to thank. It was absolute madness.
um surely that's why this was one of our things at the uh when we went on marriage our marriage course pre-marriage prep.
they said to us, "you need to talk about Christmas."
what are your expectations so i was like well of course the more tense or the better and all lights in houses should be multicolored and flashing and he's like
Uh.
No, no, no colored lights, white lights, not flashing ever and tinsel should be banned. If you're wearing tinsel today, I'm sorry. So we all have our own way of doing things. One of the traditions that we
that we had was epic. I loved it. We lived in...
quite an old house so it actually had a mortise lock on the downstairs doors and so we had this big old fashioned key and we would all queue outside the door my brother always in age order my brother me
Me sister sister mom dad in this really small space and as we got older it got more and more cramped but we loved it and my brother my brother will be handed the key and ended up turning the key and
You know, we have got our own...
traditions that are getting good now we have a christmas eve box does anyone else have a christmas eve box christmas eve stuff going on not many
it's an epic time to hand out the obligatory family pajamas i mean look at these.
this is last year's don't worry I'm only showing you the top half
Woo!
this is last year's dream team family pjs that we were all wearing.
yes we are the sims dream team now.
White isn't as flattering so now's when I hold my breath for the whole rest of the talk. Another one that you know that we do in our house. We have hump sprout. Remember Nicky talking?
Talking about this before
Brilliant! Brilliant! You just need to get yourself a sprout and you can probably use a real one and just hide it somewhere on the tree. Someone leaves the room while it's being hidden and they come into the obligatory room.
Get your ridiculous song. Hunt the sprout. Hunt the sprout. This is what it's all about. Hunt the sprout. I have no doubt you'll find that sprout. And I walk in and they have to find the sprout.
It's brilliant. If you don't do that, you probably should. As I said, we all think our own traditions are great, and you probably think mine are rather peculiar. Yeah.
okay there's another one that we have um we've gone for in our house which are these two sacks.
We have one
Here, which is sevens,
I don't know where you are, Saron. You'll recognise that, don't you, sweetheart? And we'
That is Arya Sack.
and these are very special because these get left out on christmas eve as you'd imagine.
and the girls awake on Christmas morning.
Hoping to find those two sacks bulging with presence.
and the gifts that they're going to receive generally fall into two categories.
There'll be some things that the girls are asked for.
things that they've longed for that they're hoping for that they've written letters about that they've dreamed of so i call those things the longings.
But there are also going to be some things in there
that have been chosen by others that they're not expecting at all, the completely unexpected ones, the surprises that just might make their day.
and actually talking of surprises i've got a surprise here now children you've already listened to me for a very long time so in here there are sweets.
Now,
who's good at catching I mean should I go mad and just lob it out into the aud
Health and safety james my name's on the top of the health and safety but james is his second i think or maybe john yarn will join me to do that there's some sweets there look kids enjoy that this is brilliant
it's like feeding the ducks.
There you go!
Oh no, here they all come, right. I won't throw any more until you get here children, okay? So don't rush.
Don't hurt yourself to get here
Sure, sure, big kid, back from uni. there you go.
You see, I would have just... Oh, sorry.
This is like feeding the ducks. This is the ducks and the seagulls and everybody else has come.
Oh!
Please only take one don't take 16 for yourself and none for the others there you go
Just one, just one.
Gosh.
How can you still be going
there's about four hundred suites and twenty of you and yet you're still needing more.
I'm running out here. I hope you've already got one in your mouth.
This is the biggest bag of surprises we've ever seen it's like feeding the 5 000.
All right.
One minute.
One there there you go darling come on there that is it
I'm all out of sweets.
well you see christmas is full of surprises i was surprised one how many sweets are in the bag.
And two, where the children came from.
If you haven't got any
Could you share them out if you've got, because there are some people who don't have one.
and i wasn't going to speak for long and we could be here for an hour. hi
All right let's get back to it shall we adults while they're enjoying their sweets
so we got the two bags the two things that can happen in the bags we got the longings.
and we've got the surprises and both those two things the longings and the surprises they're found in the bible in that first christmas story.
think about longing the wise men they've been looking for the birth of a king their hope filled they're watching they're waiting they're trying to understand the times and the skies
and they knew that that star meant a new king had arrived and what they were hoping for and longing for they started to pursue.
what about the people of israel there's some longing there too the jewish people they've been waiting for their messiah.
the one who would bring them freedom and hope, the one who would overthrow the overthrow the roman oppressors.
God of power moving now.
and this sounds a bit like the beginning of lord of the rings but the days turned to weeks and the weeks turned to months the months to years the years to decades the decades to centuries
And still the Messiah hadn't come.
waiting for the promised one, the one who would deliver them.
and then there are surprises.
loads of surprises in that story mary was visited by an angel and told she'd have a baby and she'd call him jesus he would be the son of god now that's a bit of a shocker joseph joseph was
Ozif was visited in a dream by an angel. That's a surprise. Thank you.
we just saw that the messiah was born in a stable and put in an animals feeding trough.
That's unexpected too.
And then let's look at the shepherds
The hopeless of their society.
In Luke 2 we find them and they're in a field and they're looking after some sheep.
and shepherds were once held in high esteem in the culture but by the time of jesus they've got a really low standing and part of that is because of the religious people who notice that they work on the
Work on the Sabbath. And so they have got lower and lower in society because sheep always need a shepherd, don't they? Yeah.
one commentator that i was reading about said that shepherds had really few civil rights and they couldn't even give evidence in court.
and it was these shepherds who got this huge tada moment the angels in the sky singing
I love the fact that the most lowly in society were given the biggest heavenly show. I bring you good news of great joy for everyone. It's not just good news.
It's good news for everyone else. It's good news for you. And it's good news for all of us today too.
No one is off limits for God. However you may be viewed in the eyes of others, whatever
value society has attributed to you or however worthless you feel today.
God is for you and the Christmas story is for you.
you see whether you've come here today
and you are hope filled like the wise men or whether you've been hoping for so long for something that's never come to pass like the Jewish people and you're exhausted and your hope is waning or whether
or whether like a first century shepherd, things that are pretty hopeless for you this christmas and you did well just to get here today or to switch on at home to watch.
I want you to know this this afternoon that hope
Is alive.
And his name,
Is Jesus.
And Jesus, the hope we can find in him is not a vanishing hope, it's not a disappointing hope.
It's secure
it's sure it can be an anchor for us in the storms of our life.
And my experience is that
What we're all really longing for deep down can be found in the baby,
The man
The king.
Call Jesus
So whether you're looking for him like a wise man, longing for him like the people of Israel, or just going about your everyday business this year like the shepherds,
May he be the best surprise you've ever had to change your life this Christmas.
One last thought.
In a week's time, in a few weeks' time.
These are going to be rolled up again.
Put back into the box
and put in the rafters of my garage until the same time next year.
So my question to you is this, what are you going to do with Jesus this year?
Are you going to hear this message
Roll it up.
along with the celebration services, popping away as just another tradition to be looked at again next year.
Or you're going to look into the one
Who gave it all for you.
Hope is a life.
Merry Christmas.